Information gathering 


#	Tool Name		Description
1	CFF Explorer		A tool that was designed to make PE editing as easy as possible without losing sight of the portable 				executable’s internal structure.
2	PEid			A tool that detects most common packers, cryptors and compilers for PE files.
3	Detect It Easy (DIE)	A program for determining file types for Windows, Linux and macOS.
4	Strings			A tool that scans any files you pass it for UNICODE or ASCII strings of a default length of three or more 				UNICODE or ASCII characters.


set of .NET decompilers and deobfuscators tools:


#	Tool Name			Description
1	dnSpy				A .NET debugger and assembly editor.
2	ILSpy				ILSpy is the open-source .NET assembly browser and decompiler.
3	JetBrains DotPeek		A program for determining types of files for Windows, Linux, and macOS.
4	de4dot				.NET deobfuscator and unpacker.
5	NeonFuscatorDeobfuscator	.NET deobfuscator for Autori Obfuscator (NeonFuscator).


set of network sniffers 


#	Tool Name		Description
1	Wireshark		Wireshark is the world’s foremost and most widely-used network protocol analyzer.
2	TCPView			TCPView is a Windows program that shows detailed listings of all TCP and UDP endpoints on your system, 				including the local and remote addresses and the state of TCP connections.
3	SmartSniff		SmartSniff is a network monitoring utility that allows you to capture TCP/IP packets that pass through your 				network adapter and view the captured data as sequence of conversations between clients and servers.
4	tcpdump			tcpdump is a common packet analyzer that runs under the command line. It allows the user to intercept and 				display TCP/IP and other packets being transmitted or received over a network to which the computer is 				attached.
5	Microsoft Network Monitor 3.4	


set of proxy tools 


#	Tool Name		Description
1	Burp Suite		Burp Suite Professional is an advanced set of tools for testing web security.
2	Fiddler	Fiddler 	is a free web debugging tool which logs all HTTP(S) traffic between your computer and the Internet.
3	Echo Mirage		Echo Mirage is a versatile local proxy tool that can be used to intercept and modify TCP payloads for local Windows applications.
4	Charles Web Debugging Proxy	Charles is an HTTP proxy that enables to view all of the HTTP and SSL / HTTPS traffic between the local machine and the Internet. This includes 				requests, responses and the HTTP headers.


set of file analysis tools

	Tool Name		Description
1	Process Monitor		An advanced monitoring tool for Windows that shows real-time file system, Registry and process/thread activity.
2	Regshot	An open-source (LGPL) registry compare utility that allows you to quickly take a snapshot of your registry and then compares it with a second one – used after doing system 					changes or installing a new software product.
3	Process Explorer	Provides the functionality of the Windows Task Manager along with a rich set of features for collecting information about processes running on the user’s 					system. It can be used as the first step in debugging software.
4	Process Hacker		A free, powerful multi-purpose tool that helps you monitor system resources, debug software and detect malware.

				testing for DLL Hijacking vulnerability:



#	Tool Name	Description
1	DLLSpy		A tool that detects DLL hijacking in running processes and services and in their binaries.
2	Robber		An open-source tool for finding executables prone to DLL hijacking.

 locating sensitive data storage on files and registry:


#	Tool Name		Description
1	Process Monitor		An advanced monitoring tool for Windows that shows real-time file system, Registry and process/thread activity.
2	Regshot	An open-source (LGPL) registry compare utility that allows you to quickly take a snapshot of your registry and then compares it with a second one – used after doing system 				changes or installing a new software product.
3	Process Explorer	A tool that provides the functionality of the Windows Task Manager along with a rich set of features for collecting information about processes running on 				the user’s system. It can be used as the first step in debugging software.
4	Process Hacker		A free, powerful multi-purpose tool that helps you monitor system resources, debug software and detect malware.

 				set of binary analysis tools 


#	Tool Name		Description
1	Ghidra			A suite of free software reverse engineering tools developed by the NSA’s Research Directorate. It was originally exposed in 									WikiLeaks’s “Vault 7” publication and is now maintained as open-source software.
2	Immunity Debugger	Immunity Debugger is a powerful new way to write exploits, analyze malware and reverse engineer binary files.
3	Interactive Disassembler (IDA Pro)	Proprietary multi-processor disassembler and debugger for Windows, GNU/Linux or macOS. It also has a free version, IDA Free.
4	OllyDbg	x86 		debugger for Windows binaries that emphasizes binary code analysis.
5	Radare2			Open source, cross-platform reverse engineering framework.
6	dnSpy			A tool to reverse engineer .NET assemblies.
7	x64dbg			Open source x64/x32 debugger for windows.
8	JetBrains DotPeek	Free .NET decompiler and assembly browser.
9	ILSpy			Open-source .NET assembly browser and decompiler.
10	JD-GUI			A standalone Java decompiler GUI.
11	Jadx			Dex to Java decompiler.
12	Bytecode Viewer		A lightweight user-friendly Java bytecode viewer.
13	Luyten			An Open source Java Decompiler GUI for Procyon
14	PE Explorer		View, Edit and Reverse Engineer EXE and DLL Files.
15	UPX Decompression	A free, portable, extendable, high-performance executable packer for several executable formats.
16	Frida			A dynamic instrumentation toolkit for developers, reverse-engineers and security researchers.


set of weak GUI control tools 


#	Tool Name	Description
1	WinSpy++	A tool whose purpose is to help you view and modify the properties of any window in your system with great ease.
2	WinManipulate	A simple tool to manipulate window objects in Windows.
3	Windows Enabler	A simple tool that lets you activate functions your thick client application has blocked.


set of memory analysis tools that can 

	Tool Name		Description
1	Winhex			An advanced monitoring tool for Windows that shows real-time file system, Registry and process/thread 				activity.
2	Volatility		An open-source (LGPL) registry compare utility that allows you to quickly take a snapshot of your registry 				and then compares it with a second one – used after doing system changes or installing a new software 				product.
3	Process Explorer	Provides the functionality of the Windows Task Manager along with a rich set of features for collecting 					information about processes running on the user’s system. It can be used as the first step in debugging 				software.
4	Strings			Strings scans any file you pass it for UNICODE or ASCII strings with a default length of three or more 						UNICODE or ASCII characters.












